---
tags:
  - Event
aliases:
  - Outlaw Council
---
# Outlaw Council
The Outlaw Council is an annual meeting held in the city of [[Daggermark-City|Daggermark]] where the most powerful leaders of the [[River-Kingdoms|River Kingdoms]] come together to discuss threats to their collective freedoms and security. This is the closest the [[River-Kingdoms|River Kingdoms]] get to having a single government, but every year it is quite contentious.

The rulers of all the kingdoms are entitled to attend, but most weight is given to the leaders of the more established regions, currently [[Daggermark-Realm|Daggermark]], [[Gralton-Realm|Gralton]], [[Lambreth]], [[Mivon-Realm|Mivon]], Pitax, the [[Protectorate-of-the-Black-Marquis|Protectorate of the Black Marquis]], Sevenarches, Tymon, and Uringen. A lord must attend personally in order to have a voice in the proceedings; proxies are not allowed to address the council. The meeting grounds are considered to be neutral territory.
## History
The council was first suggested by the [[Daggermark-Assassins-Guild|Daggermark Assassins' Guild]] and the [[Daggermark-Poisoners-Guild|Poisoners' Guild]] over ninety years ago following the upheaval caused by the sudden death of the last king of [[Daggermark-Realm|Daggermark]]. The guilds sent emissaries to the other [[River-Kingdoms|River Kingdoms]] who suggested a council be established to address issues affecting all the Kingdoms. The other regions agreed, and the following the year the Outlaw Council, as it was dubbed, met in [[Daggermark-City|Daggermark]]. Its first act was to officially codify the [[River-Freedoms|River Freedoms]].

Since then, the Council has continued to meet each year in [[Daggermark-City|Daggermark]], where the meeting hall is considered to be neutral territory.

Consisting of leaders from the most significant kingdoms, the Outlaw Council provides the only political stability the land has ever known. Rulers from all kingdoms are invited to attend this yearly council in [[Daggermark-City|Daggermark]], but only lords from [[Daggermark-Realm|Daggermark]], [[Gralton-Realm|Gralton]], [[Lambreth]], [[Mivon-Realm|Mivon]], Pitax, the [[Protectorate-of-the-Black-Marquis|Protectorate of the Black Marquis]], Sevenarches, Tymon, and Uringen are truly respected. Other kingdoms are considered too transient to merit full consideration in the proceedings, though in the spirit of unity they are allowed to attend and speak occasionally. Unlike in other meetings, mere representatives are not allowed to speak—a lord must attend personally to have a voice. Topics of yearly discourse include negotiating treaties, defence against mutual threats, food distribution, recognition of sovereignty, and solving smaller, interpersonal matters before they become armed conflicts. The meeting hall where the Outlaw Council gathers is considered neutral territory—no king rules any other there, even Livondar, [[Martro-Livondar|Lord of Daggermark]]. However, [[Daggermark-Assassins-Guild|Daggermark’s famed assassins]] are on silent duty as servants throughout the meeting, making the Outlaw Council meeting the worst time of the year to attempt a [[Daggermark-Realm|Daggermark]] coup