---
tags:
  - Place
  - Nation
aliases:
  - Chelish
  - Infernal Cheliax
  - Cheliax
---
# Cheliax
Infernal [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] (pronounced CHEL-ee-ax) remains one of the most powerful nations militarily in the [[Inner-Sea|Inner Sea]] region. Its control of the Arch of Aroden, the passage between the [[Inner-Sea|Inner Sea]] and the Arcadian Ocean, also gives it a vital role in much of the region's trade. Nevertheless, as important as the nation may be today, it pales in comparison to its former Imperial glory. Today, in the eyes of most external observers, Cheliax's government (to a greater extent) and its people (to a lesser) suffer due to their devotion to diabolism, the worship of devils. The tyrannical government brought on by the adherence to these beliefs prevent it from truly achieving its full potential. Internal observers, however, including the new nobility of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]], firmly believe that Asmodeus and Hell serve [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] and assist in maintaining the power necessary for [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] to assume its rightful role among the leading nations of the region.

## History
Aroden’s death just over a century ago changed the empire of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] forever, as vassal states quickly rebelled and [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] itself fell into a bloody 30-year civil war that was quelled only by the kingdom’s current diabolical aristocracy—the Thrice- Damned House of Thrune. Today, [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] is a nation without hope—a decadent empire weakened by losses in glory and colonial wealth but deluded with pretensions of greatness spurred on by the infernal court and its fell adherents. It is a stain on the face of [[Golarion]] and a mockery of what was once the greatest kingdom of mankind. Yet the common folk of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] are grateful for the salvation the House of Thrune engineered for the dying nation, and if an oppressive government and diabolical church are the price of civilization and the prevention of an even greater civil war, most of the nation’s citizens are only too glad to pay and serve. Alas, such servitude often comes in the form of slavery. [[Halfling|Halflings]], in particular, suffer in this regard; known as “slips,” they are treated with scorn and contempt. Tieflings are seen as worse than rabble, fleshly proof of a lapse of control over diabolic temptation, and when they appear in public, they do so invariably as exotic slaves or furtive criminals.

Imperial [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] dominated [[Avistan]] for more than 600 years after Chelish King Aspex the Even-Tongued broke from [[Taldor|Taldor]], diplomatically absorbed [[Andoran]], and conquered both Isger and [[Galt]]. These events launched a centuries-long tradition of expansion and glory, propelling [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] to the height of [[human]] civilization. The nation soon dominated and subsumed many native peoples and cultures, so that many regions had a ruling elite or caste of Chelish origin, or with a strong Chelish heritage and blood ties running back to the empire. The empire continued to expand, and with the expected return of Aroden, patron god of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]], none of the Chelish people had any doubt that it would eventually attain the power (and riches) of ancient Azlant.

Then the inexplicable occurred. Instead of returning, Aroden died, and a part of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] died with him. With the emperor stripped of his divine mandate, certain powerful noble houses rose up, plunging the imperial heartland into civil war. Anarchy and war plagued [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] for more than 30 years, until House Thrune and its allies took and held the throne. Queen Abrogail I, Infernal Majestrix of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]], placed among her armies bound devils from the depths of Hell. She quelled dissent in the empire’s heartland and in so doing gained her new regime a measure of respect and legitimacy. Few among the gods-fearing citizens of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] approved of the diabolists’ fearsome methods, but wherever they installed themselves, the opportunistic savagery of the last generation soon ceased, and a dark peace embraced the kingdom. Shortly after taking control of the nation, the new government moved its administrative center to the inland port city of Egorian and wasted little time in demanding subservience from Imperial Cheliax’s many holdings. For several months, the new regime not only maintained the borders of Imperial [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] but also stood poised to expand beyond them. Unfortunately for the Egorian government, though, the infernal blasphemies of House Thrune turned public opinion against [[Cheliax|Cheliax]].

The people of [[Galt]] and [[Andoran|Andoran]] rose up and threw off Cheliax’s imperial shackles. Reluctantly, House Thrune allowed these vassals to secede, focusing its attentions on the lucrative colonies of Sargava in Garund and Anchor’s End in distant Arcadia.

Despite losing almost half its holdings, [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] remains one of the largest nations on [[Golarion]]. The far-reaching influence of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]] stretches north to the [[Lands-of-the-Linnorm-Kings|Lands of the Linnorm Kings]], south to the nation of Sargava in Garund, and east into [[Taldor|Taldor]] and Qadira. Elements of Chelish culture appear in all those places and more, mostly in the ports and trading cities of dozens of nations—indeed, art, theater, and music (particularly the opera) have seen a striking explosion in popularity in modern [[Cheliax|Cheliax]], if only because the nation’s beleaguered citizens increasingly need an escape from reality.

## People
Chelaxians thrive on the southwestern portion of [[Avistan]], and the exploits of their once-mighty empire spread Chelish seed throughout the [[Inner-Sea|Inner Sea]] region. Haughty, cultured, intelligent, ambitious, organized, and ruthless, Chelaxians have become a dynamic force in the world—not always to the world’s benefit.

Chelaxians are by and large an industrious, aggressive, self-conf ident people with refined cultural taste, who combine the best and worst traits of the [[Taldor|Taldan]] and [[Lands-of-the-Linnorm-Kings|Ulfen]] peoples. They have a flair for organization, and as a result, soon came to dominate their large corner of [[Avistan]]. They undercut the power of, and later successfully rebelled against, the elder [[Taldor|Taldan]] Empire, and soon dominated the surrounding regions either directly or indirectly, forming the Empire of [[Cheliax|Cheliax]]. They even successfully removed the center of worship of the god Aroden from [[Taldor|Taldor]] to their empire, and spread both north into [[Varisia|Varisia]] and south into Garund in a series of conf licts known as the Everwar.

The inherent self-confidence of the Chelaxians, instilled from birth, served them well at the time of their favored god’s death and the devastating civil war that followed. Modern Chelaxians believe they are inherently more capable of handling any situation than other races—this might take the form of either helpful, positive advice or arrogant dismissal of rival viewpoints. Their aggressive attitude causes them to persevere even in desperate straits.

This self-assurance is bolstered by a long, rich heritage and a love for learning, which manifests in theology, arcane studies, and mechanical invention. Chelaxian specialists are particularly capable in discovering, developing, and adapting new techniques revealed by their own research or learned from other cultures.

Chelaxians favor rich trappings both in their homes and on their persons. Popular outfits include velvet or silk gowns or doublets with rich brocades and lace trim, often covered with a cloak of a rare and valuable color or made from the hide of some uncommon creature. In more hostile climes, they prefer inscribed armor (often of [[Dwarf|dwarven]] manufacture) and filigreed weapons with rich and detailed provenances. This is not to say that, when money is tight or circumstances dictate, they are above traveling in civilian clothes or mixing with the common-folk in order to avoid difficult circumstances. They never sacrifice their bearing, however, and cannot hide their confidence.

Chelaxians venerate those heroes who embody their values: strength, nobility, ambition, and—most of all— success. Chelaxian heroes tend to be accepted into the larger community with titles, grants of land, and marriage into the more respectable houses. By the same token, those heroes deemed a threat to the local ruling class are watched and, if necessary, removed, either by sending them on quests to other areas or quietly, in the dead of night.

As a people, Chelaxians are serious about oaths, contracts, and promises, and they believe in playing by the rules, all the while checking for loopholes to best subvert those rules. They tend to organize themselves and to work together toward a common goal, taking direction from an established and recognized leader. Such a talent for organization has served well among the empire’s legions in its conquests, though the nation is not immune to periodic rebellions and unrest. A common joke is that while Varisians might form an angry mob, Chelaxians instead create a well-ordered, disapproving queue.

Chelaxians have a common first name and a family name or surname. Family and lineage are very important to a Chelaxian, and those of particular power or legendary ability might gain a sobriquet as well (such as “the wise,” “the open-handed,” or “the rat-biter”). Chelaxian names tend to sound grandiose and learned, and are used in full when officially addressing them. 